.TH shell 1 2020-004-16 "version 1.0" "Simple Shell Manual Page"
.SH NAME
.B shell
- command interpreter (shell)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shell [
.I filename
.B ] [
.I option
.B ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Is a command interpreter for the system. This version has some features similar
of the sh version in wich it was based. The whole code was written in C language.

.SS Overview
The shell is a command that read lines from a file or the stream terminal,
iterprets them, and try to execute the command. It works basically with the
combination of some data structures as linked list, structs, and arrays. Also
it uses the environment variables of the current process to run the shell, and
the macros, system calls and other functions already existing in some common
libraries and the current linux version.

.SS Invocation
It can work with interactive and non-interactive mode, to make it work as
interactive you first must run the shell from another shell. For a non-
interactive use you must first echo the command and then execute the shell.

.SS Argument list processing
Currently it does not run any option for the arguments unless the command
already has options on it. In future versions probably it could be implemented.

.SS Lexical structure
The shell read input in terms of lines from a file and breaks it ip into words
at whitespace and ending the breaking with the <newline>. This caracters
are called "operators". The current version works with only the whitespace and
<newline> operators.

.SS Search and execution
There are three types of commands: shell functions, built-in commands, and
normal programs, they are searched for in that order. Shell build-ins are
executed internally to the shell, without spawning new process.
If the command doesn not match a function or builtin, the command is searched
for as a normal program in the file system. When a normal program is executed,
the shell runs the program, passing he arguments and the environment to the
program.

.SS Path search
It is the last search the shell execute, when it does not found any match as a
shell function, build-in script inside current folder. Looks for each entry in
the PATH, the PATH its separated by colons. Each entry its a directory name.

.SS Command exit status
It supports the most common exit codes, usually it will return 0, or the command
exit status assigned, also manage some error messages.

.SS Built-ins
Supports exit and EOF (Ctrl+D)

.SH SEE ALSO
.I sh(1)
,
.I csh(1)
,
.I ksh(1)
.

.SH BUGS
No bugs known.

.SH AUTHOR
This page was written by
.BR "Fredy Acuña"
and
.BR "Andres Ariza"

A description of the project, and the source code can be found at
\%https://github.com/afarizap/simple_shell